We would like to begin
by posing three questions
and then answering those three questions.
First, what do we know
about the resurrection?
Second, what don’t we know
And third, what should we do
with what we know about the resurrection?
Well, first, let’s go
to that first question posed:
What do we know about the resurrection
that will soon take place here on earth?
Well, first of all, we know it’s a guarantee.
It’s a promise that will be fulfilled.
And based on today’s text
at Acts 24:15, it says:
“There is going to be a resurrection
of both the righteous
[as well as] the unrighteous.”
And just imagine
what it will be like when that begins,
when over 6,000 years of deaths are undone
and those who are sleeping
in the graves will come back to life.
What an amazing prospect!
And as was pointed out,
the first line in our Watchtower  comments
was pretty awesome,
and I’m sure you saw that too,
that Jehovah wants people to live, not die.
So this is really
a manifestation of Jehovah’s power
as well as his unfailing love
for all mankind.
And Jesus reflected his Father’s love.
In fact, he died in our behalf,
and he wanted to fulfill
the promise he made
at John 5:28, 29,
where he said:
“All those in the memorial tombs
will hear his voice and come out.”
“All” meaning
“all the righteous and the unrighteous.”
Those who are asleep will awaken.
They may have been long forgotten by humans,
but Jehovah has never forgotten them.
They are right in his memory.
Now, have you ever gone to an old cemetery
and looked at some of the gravestones?
Some of the engraving
has been worn off over years of weathering.
We don’t even know who’s buried
in that burial plot, but Jehovah does.
And he has it filed away
in his everlasting memory.
So when we’re talking
about the righteous that will come back,
who are we talking about?
Well, the righteous
are the faithful men and women
that have died
before Jesus’ sacrificial death
and the other sheep
who die during the last days.
And what about the unrighteous?
Well, the unrighteous are humans,
billions of humans,
who died without really having an opportunity
to know Jehovah, to get to worship him
or even to apply Bible truths.
They will have the opportunity
to get to know Jehovah,
to draw close to him, and to do his will.
The March 2016 meeting workbook
(you may recall this)
had this scenario.
It said: “Instead of funerals,
there may be welcoming sessions
for the resurrected.”
Wow!
That’s going to be so amazing
for us to actually be there
and experience
these welcoming-type of meetings.
And it posed two questions
in that meeting workbook:
“Which of your friends and relatives
do you especially
look forward to seeing again?”
Now, there are probably some people
going through your mind right now,
like I am thinking about.
The second question:
“Which Bible characters do you
especially want to meet and talk to?”
Again, a whole list
is probably coming into our minds.
Well, stay tuned.
Well, here’s a question:
What indication do we have as to the manner
in which the resurrected ones
will take their place?
How will they come back?
Well, based on 1 Corinthians 15:23,
we know that the heavenly resurrection
of the anointed is done in an orderly way.
As Paul said:
“Each one in his own proper order:
“Christ the firstfruits,
afterward those who belong
to the Christ during his presence.”
So it will be progressive during that time.
Now, since we know
that Jehovah is a God of order,
it’s reasonable to conclude
that the earthly resurrection
will take place in a logical and orderly way.
Instead of having billions
come back to life all at once,
we know that it would make much more sense
that it would be done progressively.
So as each one is resurrected
—they come to life—
we can help them individually
with their needs and their circumstances.
Well, what do we know
about the physical and spiritual care
resurrected ones will receive at that time?
Well, at the right time,
at Jehovah’s perfect timing,
he will awaken them.
And what will they find?
They will find abundant housing, clothing,
and food all given to them.
By whom?
By those who will make it
through this system and on into the next
—great tribulation survivors,
you and me.
And we have a precedent for that.
Remember when Jesus
resurrected a little girl?
And all those who saw that amazing miracle
—what did he say to those who saw that?
He said: ‘Please give
the little girl something to eat.’
So he didn’t say that
every time he resurrected someone,
but he knew her individual needs,
and he addressed those.
And likewise, we will have
that privilege in this coming system.
Most of us will have that privilege.
And think about all the training
that we have received here at Bethel and LDC
and other areas of our organization
that will be put to use at that time.
And think about the billions
of “unrighteous ones”
that will be resurrected
that will need to have spiritual instruction.
They will need to learn about Jehovah;
they will need to learn
about Jesus and the ransom sacrifice
and how they can exercise
that faith in the ransom.
Who will teach them?
You will teach them,
and hopefully I will teach them.
And what will we use as a basis
to teach these ones who need to learn
about Jehovah, Jesus,
and Jehovah’s requirements?
Well, of course, the Bible
will be something that we will use.
But John’s vision at Revelation 20:12
gives us another clue.
Let’s turn there and read this together,
Revelation 20:12;
it says:
“And I saw the dead,
the great and the small,
“standing before the throne,
and scrolls were opened.
“But another scroll was opened;
it is the scroll of life.
“The dead were judged out of those things
written in the scrolls
according to their deeds.”
Now, was this mentioning the “deeds”
of their past conduct, or past deeds?
No.
This judgment will not focus
on what they did before they died.
But how do we know that?
Romans 6:7, as you recall, says:
“For the one who has died has been acquitted
“[or the footnote says:
“released (pardoned)”]
from his sin.”
So those who come back to life,
those who are resurrected,
will have a clean slate.
What a relief for them and for us,
because many of us do know many
who did not worship Jehovah
before they passed away!
So that clean slate is such a relief.
So to live forever there
will be further requirements
for those who survive the great tribulation
as well as those who are resurrected.
We need to learn
and continue to obey those requirements
and any new ones
that might be revealed by Jehovah
during the thousand years.
Well, what don’t we know
about the resurrection?
A lot.
There are so many questions
that we might have:
Will those who died recently be raised
near the start
of Christ’s Thousand Year Reign?
Will the righteous be brought back first
and then the unrighteous?
Will they be welcomed
by loved ones who know them?
Will resurrections take place
in the area where people died?
How will Jehovah arrange matters
for those who were married when they died?
Will faithful men of old
with leadership abilities
come back to help to organize matters?
Well, how will theocratic
spiritual food be given?
Will there be a Teaching Committee
or Writing Committee,
or will another arrangement
be made to provide spiritual food?
Will there be hard copies?
Will there be electronic copies?
Will there be videos?
Will there be some sort of JW broadcast?
We just don’t know.
We need to stay tuned,
and we need to be patient.
It’s good to heed Jeremiah’s advice.
If you turn to Lamentations chapter 3,
notice there in Lamentations 3:25, 26
something that we want
to focus on today in the meantime.
It says: “Good is Jehovah
to the one hoping in him,
“to the person who keeps seeking him.
“Good it is to wait in silence
[or the footnote says: “to wait patiently”]
for the salvation of Jehovah.”
So we know that in due course,
all will be revealed by Jehovah.
And as we rest our hope on Jehovah
and those in the future come back,
they will know that the one who will
“satisfy the desire of every living thing”
will have it all taken care for us.
All the answers will be given to us.
Jehovah has always given us
what we need to be faithful now,
and he’ll do the same in the future.
And now it’s up to each and every one of us
to prove our faithfulness,
to put our hope in that resurrection hope,
and to share it with others.
And hopefully some day,
maybe a thousand years from now,
we’ll look back, and we’ll say:
“There [was ] a resurrection
of both the righteous and the unrighteous.”